=head1 NAME

debhelper-obsolete-compat - List of no longer supported compat levels

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This document contains the upgrade guidelines from all compat levels
which are no longer supported.  Accordingly it is mostly for
historical purposes and to assist people upgrading from a
non-supported compat level to a supported level.

For upgrades from supported compat levels, please see L<debhelper(7)>.

=head1 UPGRADE LIST FOR COMPAT LEVELS

The following is the list of now obsolete compat levels and their
changes.

=over 4

=item v1

This is the original debhelper compatibility level, and so it is the default
one. In this mode, debhelper will use F<debian/tmp> as the package tree
directory for the first binary package listed in the control file, while using
debian/I<package> for all other packages listed in the F<control> file.

This mode is deprecated.

=item v2

In this mode, debhelper will consistently use debian/I<package>
as the package tree directory for every package that is built.

This mode is deprecated.

=item v3

This mode works like v2, with the following additions:

=over 8

=item -

Debhelper config files support globbing via B<*> and B<?>, when appropriate. To
turn this off and use those characters raw, just prefix with a backslash.

=item -

B<dh_makeshlibs> makes the F<postinst> and F<postrm> scripts call B<ldconfig>.

=item -

Every file in F<etc/> is automatically flagged as a conffile by B<dh_installdeb>.

=back

This mode is deprecated.

=item v4

Changes from v3 are:

=over 8

=item -

B<dh_makeshlibs -V> will not include the Debian part of the version number in
the generated dependency line in the shlibs file.

=item -

You are encouraged to put the new B<${misc:Depends}> into F<debian/control> to
supplement the B<${shlibs:Depends}> field.

=item -

B<dh_fixperms> will make all files in F<bin/> directories and in F<etc/init.d>
executable.

=item -

B<dh_link> will correct existing links to conform with policy.

=back

This mode is deprecated.

=item v5

This is the lowest supported compatibility level.

Changes from v4 are:

=over 8

=item -

Comments are ignored in debhelper config files.

=item -

B<dh_strip --dbg-package> now specifies the name of a package to put debugging
symbols in, not the packages to take the symbols from.

=item -

B<dh_installdocs> skips installing empty files.

=item -

B<dh_install> errors out if wildcards expand to nothing.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<debhelper(7)>

=head1 AUTHORS

Niels Thykier <niels@thykier.net>

Joey Hess

=cut
